## map() filter() and reduce()

---

### map() :

> **The map function is a higher-order function that takes an array and applies a given transformation function to each element of the array. It creates a new array with the results of applying the transformation function to each element. The map function does not modify the original array.**

## reduce():

> The reduce function is a higher-order function that reduces an array to a single value by applying a combining function to each element of the array. It takes an initial value and the combining function, which accumulates the result at each step. The reduce function can be used to perform various operations like summing elements, finding maximum or minimum values, or any custom computation.

> ```js
> array.reduce(reducingFunction, initialValue);
> ```
>
> 1. <span style="font-size:16px;color:aqua;">callback:</span> **The callback function is the core of the reduce() method. It is a function that will be executed on each element of the array. The callback function takes four arguments**
>
>    - <span style="font-size:16px;color:#fff;">accumulator:</span> **It is the value that accumulates the results of the callback function on each element. It can be thought of as a running total or a carry-over value from one iteration to the next.(by default first element of the array)**
>    - <span style="font-size:16px;color:#fff;">currentValue:</span> It represents the current element being processed in the array.(by default second element of the array)
>    - <span style="font-size:16px;color:#fff;">currentIndex (optional):</span> **It indicates the index of the currentValue being processed in the array. This argument is optional, and you can omit it if you don't need to use it in your callback function.**
>    - <span style="font-size:16px;color:#fff;">array (optional):</span> **It is a reference to the original array on which reduce() was called. Like currentIndex, this argument is also optional.**
>
> 2. <span style="font-size:16px;color:aqua;"> **initialValue (optional):</span> This is an optional parameter that specifies the initial value of the accumulator. If provided, the accumulator will start with this initial value. If not provided, the first element of the array will be used as the initial value, and the iteration will start from the second element.**
>
> - if there is an initial value, then accumulator will get its first value as this initial value, and the current value will the first element in the array. and the currentIndex will be 0.
